So we've talked about execution context,
execution environment,
variable environment, lexical environment.
And all of these things ultimately
are defining what's called scope.
Especially when we talked
about the scope chain,
that outer reference that
any running function has.
So big word alert.
Scope is where a variable
is available in your code.
And sometimes it has to do with it's
really even the same variable or
a new copy,
like if you called the same function twice
it each gets its own execution context and
though it looks like the same variable,
it's actually two different
variables in memory.
But in the end, we're understanding that
all these things we've been talking about
have helped us to understand something
that a lot of developers find confusing.
But because of diving under
the hood of JavaScript and
seeing how it deals with variables and
functions.
I hope you see how this helps us
understand scope on a deeper level and
in a way that it doesn't seem so odd, or
so strange, or so difficult to anticipate.
This again goes to my
philosophy about learning code.
Some people say that they
learn code better by example.
And again, examples are important and
we've looked at some already.
But understanding how things really
work makes you a better developer.
It makes you a better coder.
I stand by that philosophy
because I've seen it work.
I seen it in production environments
with large teams of coders.
Those that learn how things
really work under the hood,
solve problems better and
are better coders overall in the end.
All right, so we've talked about scope.
I just want to mention one more thing.
The next version of JavaScript
which is called ECMAScript 6 or
sometimes ECMAScript 2015, or just ES6.
Is introducing a new way
of declaring variables.
It's called let.
This is used or
can be used instead of var.
Although, it's not replacing it.
Var will still be around.
But let allows the JavaScript engine
to use what's called block scoping.
So you can declare a variable,
just like you would with var and
during the execution
phase where it's created,
the variable is still placed into
memory and set to undefined.
However, you're not allowed to use
let until the line of code is run
during the execution phase that
actually declares the variable.
So if you tried to use c in this
example before the let c = true,
you'd get an error.
Now it's still in memory but
the engine just won't allow it.
The other important thing is that
it's declared inside a block.
A block's in general
defined by curly braces, so
inside an if statement or a for
loop or something like that.
When that variable is declared inside
that block, it's only available
inside that block at that period
of time for the running code.
This is true even for four loops.
So if you have a loop and are running
the same code over and over but
you have a let statement,
you'll actually get
a different variable in memory
each time the loop is running.
So this allows for what's called
block scoping as we mentioned,
which others who are use to other
programing languages may be familiar with.
But again you can use both let and
var in ES6.
And it's good to know and
understand how both work.
We'll talk about this more
later in the course but
I just wanted to mention it now.
That there are more options available
in the next version of JavaScript for
how you scope a variable.